Release Notes for ARDP Release 1.1.

Last Modified: (Time-stamp: <98/07/09 11:05:20 swa>)

*What is ARDP, and why this distribution?

The Asynchronous Reliable Delivery Protocol (ARDP) is a communication
protocol.  We have made this distribution because we believe that ARDP
is generally useful and addresses issues not addressed by other protocols.

ARDP is designed for a request/response style of interaction, where in
the common case, the client sends a request message to a server using
as few packets as possible, and then receives a reply message from the
server. The server can queue requests and send the packets composing
the response message as data becomes available. In the meantime, the
server can process other requests.  In the current implementation,
each request message sent by a machine from a particular port has its
own connection id.

ARDP, which is layered on top of the Internet User Datagram Protocol
(UDP), is designed so that in the common case, the additional overhead
of guaranteeing reliability is as small as possible. In other words,
ARDP's goal is to provide reliability without incurring the overhead
of setting up/tearing down a TCP connection. Unless special processing
is required, the header is kept small, and unless a packet is lost, no
gadditional packets are sent.

ARDP also optionally carries security information in the transport
layer; this feature is useful to those wishing to quickly develop
secure Internet services.

The ARDP library is fully multi-threaded, both on the client and
server sides.

ARDP is currently used by systems such as the Prospero Directory
Service, NetCheque, NetCash, and PPV.  

*Documentation

See the file ardp/doc in this distribution.  This directory includes a
list of frequently asked questions, a protocol specification, and a
full description of the ARDP API.  

The most recent ARDP documentation is always available at
the URL http://gost.isi.edu/info/ardp. 

*How to INSTALL ARDP:

See the file INSTALLATION in this directory.

*Contact Information:

Requests or queries about the release, including bug reports and suggestions
for improving ARDP, should be sent to all four of these email
addresses:

	swa@ISI.EDU, salehi@ISI.EDU, katia@ISI.EDU, and bcn@ISI.EDU

We are interested in co-operating with and supporting users who wish
to embed ARDP in their own projects.

*Credits and History.

The first version of ARDP was written by Clifford Neuman while a
graduate student at the University of Washington.  From 1993, Steven
Augart wrote numerous incremental enhancements to ARDP.  From 1996 to
1998, Steven Augart and Katia Obraczka rewrote much of ARDP as part of
implementing the ARDP v1 protocol.  From 1997 to 1998, Nader Salehi
and Steven Augart rewrote the multithreaded server support in ARDP and
added support for multithreaded clients.

*Distribution history.

**ARDP version 1.1 (this version) adds support for multi-threaded
clients.  It also features a rewriting of the multi-thread support to
use the POSIX thread standard directly.  We used to use a more generic
mechanism; this mechanism provided wrapper functions that allowed one
to call various underlying thread packages.  This support is no longer
needed with the wide availability of implementations of the full POSIX
threads standard.

**ARDP version 1.0 was the first free-standing distribution of ARDP.

**Versions of ARDP before 1.0 were only distributed as part of the
Prospero Directory Service.
